Commands:

git init
  Creates a new Git repository in the current folder.

git add .
  Stages all changed files in the current folder so they are ready to commit.

git commit -m "comment"
  Saves the staged changes with a message describing what changed.

git clone <repo url>
  Downloads a copy of an existing remote repository to your computer.

git pull
  Gets the latest changes from the remote repository and merges them into your current branch.

git checkout <commit hashed-key>
  Moves your working copy to a specific commit using its commit hash.

git branch -d <name of the branch>
  Deletes a local branch, usually after it has already been merged.

git switch -c <branchName>
  Creates a new branch and switches to it.

git switch <branchName>
  Switches to an existing branch.

git log
  Shows the commit history.

git branch -a
  Lists all local and remote branches.

git status
  Shows the current state of your repository, including changed, staged, and untracked files.



AUGUST 3, 2026 (Simulation - Team workflow)

git push origin main
	this command would push the changes on the main (not the usual git push)

FETCH - Good practice, check first if there are changes on the repo
THESE 2 commands are use to check if there are changes made on the repo by other teammate
	git fetch origin
	get status
OR THESE
	git fetch origin
	git diff main origin/main
IF there are changes then run the command
	git pull


Scenario: For instance you wanna use a different GitHub account but your terminal requires you to global config. Now, instead of doing it, you may fallow these steps
1. Click your GitHub profile icon on the upper right corner and look for settings
2. On the left sidebar menu, look for "Developer settings" which is located at the bottom part of the list
3. Choose the "Personal Access Tokens" and choose the Tokens(classic) and name your API and generate the token
4. on your initialized (or cloned) project type this: git remote set-url origin https://USERNAME:TOKEN@github.com/USERNAME/REPOSITORY.git
	Note: replace the username and token.


NOTE: the "main" branch is the stable collective codes pushed by all the team members. It is a best practice not to work on main but create a local branch on your local device.

Team GitHub Workflow
1. Clone the repository (maybe created by the programmer or project manager. Each team member clones the repository only once.)
	git clone https://github.com/company/project.git
	cd project
2. Update the main branch. Before starting work, get the latest changes.
	git checkout main
	git pull origin main
	

3. Create your own branch. Never work directly on main. For example, if you are implementing the login page:
	git checkout -b feature/login or git checkout -b feature-login (depends on the naming convention of the team
	git checkout -b feature-registration

	git checkout -b feature-dashboard
	
	git checkout -b fix-navbar

	NOTE THAT THE ABOVE ARE THE OLD WAYS OF SWITCHING TO THE CREATED BRANCH, BELOW IS THE NEW ONE:

	git switch -c feature/login



4. Step 4: Write your code. Modify files. For example:

	login.js
    	dashboard.js
    	navbar.js
	These might be created in different branches like git checkout -b feature/login

5. Commit your changes
	git add .

	git commit -m "Add login functionality"

6. Push your branch
	git push origin feature-login

7. Open a pull request on GitHub:
	example output:

	Enumerating objects: 12, done.
	Counting objects: 100% (12/12), done.

	To github.com/company/project.git

	* [new branch]      feature-login -> feature-login

8. The user who would make a PR must go to GitHub

	https://github.com/company/project
	
	see the button

	feature-login had recent pushes.

	[Compare & pull request]
9 fills in the pull request

	Base branch:
		main
	Compare branch:
		feature-login
10. Add title
		Add login functionality
	Add description
		added login page
11. Hit the Create pull request button

12. The repository owner reviews the pull request
	You can review the code, leave comments, and click "Merge pull request"

	GitHub merges: feature-login -> main

13. Team members update their local repository
	After the pull request is merged:
	git checkout main

	git pull origin main

14. If the branch is no longer needed, you can delete it:
	git branch -d feature-login
	And remove the remote branch:
	git push origin --delete feature-login
