Commands:

git init 
git add . 
git commit -m "comment"
git clone <repo url>
git pull
git checkout <commit hashed-key>


git push origin main 
	this command would push the changes on the main (not the usual git push)

FETCH - Good practice, check first if there are changes on the repo
THESE 2 commands are use to check if there are changes made on the repo by other teammate
	git fetch origin
	get status
OR THESE
	git fetch origin
	git diff main origin/main
IF there are changes then run the command 
	git pull


Scenario: For instance you wanna use a different GitHub account but your terminal requires you to global config. Now, instead of doing it, you may fallow these steps
1. Click your GitHub profile icon on the upper right corner and look for settings
2. On the left sidebar menu, look for "Developer settings" which is located at the bottom part of the list
3. Choose the "Personal Access Tokens" and choose the Tokens(classic) and name your API and generate the token
4. on your initialized (or cloned) project type this: git remote set-url origin https://USERNAME:TOKEN@github.com/USERNAME/REPOSITORY.git 
	Note: replace the username and token.


NOTE: the "main" branch is the stable collective codes pushed by all the team members. It is a best practice not to work on main but create a local branch on your local device. 

Team GitHub Workflow
1. Clone the repository (maybe created by the programmer or project manager. Each team member clones the repository only once.)
	git clone https://github.com/company/project.git
	cd project
2. Update the main branch. Before starting work, get the latest changes.
	git checkout main
	git pull origin main
3. Create your own branch. Never work directly on main. For example, if you are implementing the login page:
	git checkout -b feature/login or git checkout -b feature-login (depends on the naming convention of the team
	git checkout -b feature-registration

	git checkout -b feature-dashboard
	
	git checkout -b fix-navbar

	NOTE THAT THE ABOVE ARE THE OLD WAYS OF SWITCHING TO THE CREATED BRANCH, BELOW IS THE NEW ONE:

	git switch -c feature/login



4. Step 4: Write your code. Modify files. For example:

	login.js
    	dashboard.js
    	navbar.js
	These might be created in different branches like git checkout -b feature/login

5. Commit your changes
	git add .

	git commit -m "Add login functionality"

6. Push your branch
	git push origin feature-login

7. 

